---
description: Red Hat OpenShift service, deployment and management, and
  application development on the platform
filetags: ":redhat:ibm:openshift:lab:workshop:epubnote:"
id: 8e20f0e6-a70e-4882-be5f-423594ea50c8
title: Red Hat Immersion 2023 Service Offerings and Labs
---

My personal notes from a learning series from RedHat

## About Learning Days

- Day 1 Features: [Red Hat Immersion 2023 Service Offerings and Labs -
  Features and
  Services](/garden/notes/005-tech-ibm-redhat-openshift-offerings-labs-d1-features-services) -
  [Red Hat Immersion 2023 Service Offerings and Labs - Features and
  Services](id:1f4500be-1d52-47cb-92c1-ff9fd8bd5b5c)
- Day 2 Deployment and App Management: [Red Hat Immersion 2023 Service
  Offerings and Labs - Deployment and App
  Management](/garden/notes/005-tech-ibm-redhat-openshift-offerings-labs-d2-deployment-app-management) -
  [Red Hat Immersion 2023 Service Offerings and Labs - Deployment and
  App Management](id:8137c221-e247-43df-9f25-369007a1f605)
- Day 3 App Development: [Red Hat Immersion 2023 Service Offerings and
  Labs - Application
  Development](/garden/notes/005-tech-ibm-redhat-openshift-offerings-labs-d3-deployment-app-management) -
  [Red Hat Immersion 2023 Service Offerings and Labs - Application
  Development](id:48a12cde-3cc0-4c9a-b83b-037072576ba5)

## About Sessions

### Day 1: Commence with Red Hat OpenShift Essentials

Begin your OpenShift Journey with a comprehensive 2.5 hr session
covering Red Hat OpenShift key features, OpenShift Service Offerings and
Red Hat Training Offerings.

### Day 2: Expert Led Live Labs and Presentation

Participants will delve into various topics such as OpenShift
deployment, application management, monitoring, and collaborative
development, with the option to choose from four programming languages:
Java, Node.js, Python, or .NET.

- Containers
- Kubernetes
- Developer Experience (Operators, Service Mesh, Serverless, Developer
  Catalog, UBI, Helm)

Learning Outcomes

- Using the OpenShift command-line client and web console.
- Deploying an application using a pre-existing container image.
- Working with application labels to identify component parts.
- Scaling up your application in order to handle web traffic.
- Exposing your application to users outside of the cluster.
- Viewing and working with logs generated by your application.
- Accessing your application container and interacting with it.
- Giving access to other users to collaborate on your application.
- Deploying an application from source code in a Git repository.
- Deploying a database from the OpenShift service catalog.
- Configuring an application so it can access a database.
- Setting up webhooks to enable automated application builds.

There are 4 programming language variants that can be selected during
the workshop:

- Java
- Node.js
- Python
- .NET

### Day 3: Modern Application Development

Offers a comprehensive look into Modern Application Development. These
modules cover a range of topics, including assessment, refactoring, API
management, and creating intelligent applications using Red Hat AI
Services.

Lab: OpenShift Advanced for Developers - Modern App Dev: 10:00am -
4:00pm

Developers will learn to assess and analyze an application for
modernization and will experience a hands-on overview of application
services. You will also learn about API management, and integration, and
how they can enhance your application portfolio. Lastly, learn how to
create intelligent applications powered by AI/ML with the help of RHODS.
There are 4 modules:

Module 1: Assessment and Analysis (1 Hour): 10:00 - 11:15

The goal of this module is to assess the siloed current application
portfolio and identify potential issues and risks to implementing
advanced cloud-native architecture with application modernization. You
will also learn how to analyze the siloed application by scanning all
source code and properties for code modification along with an analysis
report using Migration Toolkit for Applications.

Module 2: Refactor and Deployment - Legacy to Container Workload (1
Hour) 11:15 - 12:30 PM

Understand the modernization issues related to the siloed application
and learn how you can resolve them by code modification. The MTA
Analysis report also provides the details in terms of the file name,
path, and solution recommendations for each issue. You also learn how to
build and deploy the modernized customer application to OpenShift using
OpenShift Binary Build and Deployment.

Module 3: Manage and Secure APIs (1 Hour): 1:30 PM - 2:45 PM

This module shows how an API First Approach provides the right framework
to build microservices and APIs-based systems. Developer teams can adopt
an API First approach for designing the APIs with an API designer,
managing them with Service Registry, mock the APIs for faster inner loop
development using popular tools for mocking tools, and securely managing
the APIs using the API Management Platform. This approach enables
parallel development streams, leading to rapid development.

Module 4: Create an Intelligent Application using Red Hat AI Services (1
Hour): 2:45 PM - 4:00 PM

This module shows how development teams can create intelligent
applications powered by Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
(AI/ML) algorithms on OpenShift, with the help of Red Hat OpenShift AI.
Developers, Data Scientists, and Data Engineers can now work on the same
platform, streamlining the whole development process of those types of
applications. This allows the teams easy access to all the tools they
need and is used to work with, without having to manage several
different other solutions.

## See Also

- [Openshift Intro
  Workshop](/garden/notes/005-tech-ibm-redhat-openshift-intro-workshop) -
  [Openshift Introduction
  Workshop](id:7258f169-0f3e-41b2-a459-cfb18f5c7dab)
- [IBM Openshift](/garden/notes/005-tech-ibm-redhat-openshift) - [IBM
  Openshift](id:626eb03d-5d7f-41aa-ba61-8a9df283cfaa)
