---
filetags: ":artificial-intelligence:ai:stoicism:epubnote:"
id: 4e3d5808-d482-44a1-903e-471c845d7e84
title: Stoicism and Artificial Intelligence (AI)
---

# Inspiration

Inspired by this post [Marcus Aurelius AI Bot on
Happiness](https://www.reddit.com/r/Stoicism/comments/vq7uh8/marcus_aurelius_ai_bot_on_happiness/)

Collection of Marcus Aurelius's quotations and asking GitHub Co-pilot
questions on it.

# Quotations

"You have power over your mind - not outside events. Realize this, and
you will find strength." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: ataraxy,
inner-strength, inspiration, self-control, strength 4994 likes Like
"Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars, and see yourself running
with them." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: appreciation, awe,
beauty, life, optimism, positivity, sense-of-wonder, stars 4585 likes
Like "The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your
thoughts." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: happiness 3423 likes
Like "Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is
a perspective, not the truth." ― Marcus Aurelius , Meditations tags:
truth 3244 likes Like "Waste no more time arguing about what a good man
should be. Be one." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: integrity,
morality 2360 likes Like "If you are distressed by anything external,
the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and
this you have the power to revoke at any moment." ― Marcus Aurelius,
Meditations tags: attitude, distress, mind-over-body, pain, stoicism
2148 likes Like "When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege
it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love …" ― Marcus Aurelius,
Meditations tags: carpe-diem, inspirational, life, seize-the-day 1871
likes Like "The best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the
injury." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: conduct-of-life, injury,
revenge 1781 likes Like "Accept the things to which fate binds you, and
love the people with whom fate brings you together,but do so with all
your heart." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: fate, love, people
1642 likes Like "The soul becomes dyed with the colour of its thoughts."
― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: history, rome, soul, thoughts,
wisdom 1624 likes Like "It is not death that a man should fear, but he
should fear never beginning to live." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
tags: death, fear, inspirational 1542 likes Like "Never let the future
disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of
reason which today arm you against the present." ― Marcus Aurelius,
Meditations tags: equanimity, future, inspirational, reason, stoic,
stoicism, worry 1355 likes Like "Our life is what our thoughts make it."
― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: attitude, inspirational, life 1293
likes Like "If someone is able to show me that what I think or do is not
right, I will happily change, for I seek the truth, by which no one was
ever truly harmed. It is the person who continues in his self-deception
and ignorance who is harmed." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags:
open-mindedness, prejudice, truth 1151 likes Like "Whenever you are
about to find fault with someone, ask yourself the following question:
What fault of mine most nearly resembles the one I am about to
criticize?" ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: empathy, honesty,
self-awareness 1129 likes Like "I have often wondered how it is that
every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less
value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others." ―
Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: confidence 1098 likes Like "The
object of life is not to be on the side of the majority, but to escape
finding oneself in the ranks of the insane." ― Marcus Aurelius,
Meditations tags: life, sanity 1086 likes Like "If it is not right do
not do it; if it is not true do not say it." ― Marcus Aurelius,
Meditations tags: doing-right, goodness, integrity 1077 likes Like "Very
little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself in your
way of thinking." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: choice, happiness
1055 likes Like "The best revenge is not to be like your enemy." ―
Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: philosophy, revenge 992 likes Like
"When you wake up in the morning, tell yourself: the people I deal with
today will be meddling, ungrateful, arrogant, dishonest, jealous and
surly. They are like this because they can't tell good from evil. But I
have seen the beauty of good, and the ugliness of evil, and have
recognized that the wrongdoer has a nature related to my own - not of
the same blood and birth, but the same mind, and possessing a share of
the divine. And so none of them can hurt me. No one can implicate me in
ugliness. Nor can I feel angry at my relative, or hate him. We were born
to work together like feet, hands and eyes, like the two rows of teeth,
upper and lower. To obstruct each other is unnatural. To feel anger at
someone, to turn your back on him: these are unnatural." ― Marcus
Aurelius, Meditations 970 likes Like "Reject your sense of injury and
the injury itself disappears." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags:
attitude, injury, perception 856 likes Like "When another blames you or
hates you, or people voice similar criticisms, go to their souls,
penetrate inside and see what sort of people they are. You will realize
that there is no need to be racked with anxiety that they should hold
any particular opinion about you." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags:
opinions, philosophy 747 likes Like "How much more grievous are the
consequences of anger than the causes of it." ― Marcus Aurelius,
Meditations tags: anger 709 likes Like "The first rule is to keep an
untroubled spirit. The second is to look things in the face and know
them for what they are." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags:
inspirational 705 likes Like "Live a good life. If there are gods and
they are just, then they will not care how devout you have been, but
will welcome you based on the virtues you have lived by. If there are
gods, but unjust, then you should not want to worship them. If there are
no gods, then you will be gone, but will have lived a noble life that
will live on in the memories of your loved ones." ― Marcus Aurelius 698
likes Like "Do not act as if you were going to live ten thousand years.
Death hangs over you. While you live, while it is in your power, be
good." ― Marcus Aurelius tags: be-good, goodness, integrity, morality
646 likes Like "Here is a rule to remember in future, when anything
tempts you to feel bitter: not"This is misfortune,” but "To bear this
worthily is good fortune." ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags:
inspirational 570 likes Like "Look well into thyself; there is a source
of strength which will always spring up if thou wilt always look." ―
Marcus Aurelius, Meditations tags: inner-strength, self-confidence,
self-contentment 553 likes Like "How much time he gains who does not
look to see what his neighbour says or does or thinks, but only at what
he does himself, to make it just and holy." ― Marcus Aurelius,
Meditations

## Questions

Based on the text above, what was Marcus Aurelius' attitude towards
life? A) Open-mindedness B) Self-confidence C) Self-contentment D)
Inner-strength E) Goodness F) Integrity G) Morality H) Moral-duty

Based on the text above, what was Marcus Aurelius' attitude toward daily
routines? A) Goodness B) Integrity C) Morality D) Moral-duty E)
Open-mindedness F) Self-confidence

## Translations

> en: The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your
> thoughts. fr: La bonne humeur de votre vie dépend de la qualité de vos
> pensées. ch: 心思的精彩取决于你的心思的精彩. sp: La felicidad de tu
> vida depende de la calidad de tus pensamientos.
