---
date: 2022-10-03
filetags: ":indigenous:inclusion:epubnote:"
id: ded7eb3d-cbdc-4ae7-bc69-458759a6776d
title: Indigenous Land Acknowledgements
---

My personal notes on different indigenous land Acknowledgements.

# Personal Acknowledgement Consideration

From my walks near Toronto lake shore August 2021.

The Peacemaker's Canoe was an artwork floating in Toronto's Harbour
Square Park basin designed by Jay Havens. In Haudenosaunee history, a
diplomat travelled on a shining canoe to deliver a message of peace to
the world through a system of government that saw chiefs and clan
mothers working together. More at: [Shining canoe at Toronto's
harbourfront inspired by Haudenosaunee story of the Peacemaker \| CBC
News](https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/mirror-peacemaker-canoe-harbourfront-toronto-1.6132049)

<figure>
<img
src="../media/Comms-Inclusion-Indigenous-Land-Acknowledgement-2022-10-03-12-33-09.png" />
<figcaption>Peacemaker's Canoe</figcaption>
</figure>

# French Acknowledgements for different First Nations areas and traditional territories

Source: [Guide de reconnaissance des Premières Nations et des
territoires traditionnels \|
ACPPU](https://www.caut.ca/fr/content/guide-de-reconnaissance-des-premieres-nations-et-des-territoires-traditionnels),
see site for acknowledgements in different areas

Centennial College (Toronto) – Nous reconnaissons que nous nous trouvons
sur les terres visées par le traité et le territoire de de la Première
Nation des Mississaugas de la rivière Credit et nous rendons hommage à
leur héritage et à l'héritage de toutes les Premières Nations du Canada,
tout comme nous resserrons nos liens avec les communautés que nous
desservons et nous bâtissons l'avenir par l'entremise de l'apprentissage
et de nos diplômés. Aujourd'hui, le lieu de rassemblement traditionnel
de Toronto est encore le foyer de nombreux Autochtones de l'Île aux
tortues, et nous sommes reconnaissants de pouvoir travailler dans les
collectivités qui ont prospéré sur les terres visées par le traité des
Mississaugas. Nous reconnaissons que nous sommes tous visés par les
traités et nous acceptons d'assumer notre responsabilité d'honorer
toutes nos relations.

# Niagara Regions

Source: [Niagara Canada Games
2022](https://www.canadagames.ca/previous-games/niagara-2022)

Welcome (English) / Bienvenue (French) / Boozhoo/Pooshoo (Anishinaabe)

Niagara Region is situated on treaty land. This land is steeped in the
rich history of the First Nations such as the Hatiwendaronk, the
Haudenosaunee, and the Anishinaabe, including the Mississaugas of the
Credit First Nation. There are many First Nations, Métis, and Inuit
people from across Turtle Island that live and work in Niagara today.
The Niagara 2022 Canada Summer Games stands with all Indigenous people,
past and present, in promoting the wise stewardship of the lands on
which we live.

# Ontario general - English

Based on [Legal Aid Ontario's Land
Acknowledgement](https://www.legalaid.on.ca/land-acknowledgement/)

We acknowledge that there are many treaties and other agreements that
cover the territory now called Ontario. We are thankful to be able to
work and live in these territories. We are thankful to the First
Nations, Metis and Inuit people who have cared for these territories
since time immemorial and who continue to contribute to the strength of
Ontario and to all communities across the province.

# City of Toronto - English

Source: [City of Toronto
site](https://www.toronto.ca/city-government/accessibility-human-rights/indigenous-affairs-office/land-acknowledgement/),
see source for extended acknowledgement

The City of Toronto acknowledges that we are on the traditional
territory of many nations including the Mississaugas of the Credit, the
Anishnabeg, the Chippewa, the Haudenosaunee and the Wendat peoples and
is now home to many diverse First Nations, Inuit and Métis peoples. The
City also acknowledges that Toronto is covered by Treaty 13 signed with
the Mississaugas of the Credit, and the Williams Treaties signed with
multiple Mississaugas and Chippewa bands.

The City of Toronto has been acknowledging the traditional territory
since March 2014. Due to conversations with Indigenous leaders,
including the Aboriginal Advisory Committee as part of the 2018 Toronto
for All Campaign, the language the City of Toronto uses has evolved.
Land Acknowledgment Guidance
