---
date: 2015-03-15
filetags: ":health:education:physiology:course:epubnote:"
id: 99df7d99-7929-4403-a2eb-78adfb28b53d
title: Introduction to Human Physiology - 1 Homeostasis and Endocrine
  System
---

Source: My personal notes from [Introduction to Human Physiology \|
Coursera](https://www.coursera.md/learn/physiology/home/info)

## Homeostasis

Looking at organ and organ systems. How do these organs and systems work
and what are their advantages?

Physiology is an integrative science which considers the function of
each organ and organ system and their interaction in the maintenance of
life. Stability through homeostasis - balance of inputs and outputs to
the body among organ systems.

Body components: cells \> tissues \> organ \> organ systems
(e.g. skin/barrier, respiratory, gastro-intestinal (GI), cardiovascular
& diffusion, renal)

Flow of materials in body

Barrier = skin

Entry = respiratory, GI

Transport = CV & diffusion

Exit - renal, GI

Physiologist think about fluids in the body as 2 fluid compartments

IVF = blood plasma

ECF = extra cellular fluid

ICF = intracellular fluid

IS separated from IVF by blood vessels

ATPase = enzyme moving sodium and potassium between cells

Cell membranes are water resistant, hydrophobic

Example: You have a high salt intake over a couple days. To retain equal
concentrations of salt in the body, the body must take in more ECF fluid
volume which increase pressure in blood vessels since more ECF is
present.

## Regulation of Homeostasis

### Local control

Paracrine - response message sent across cells

Autocrine - self regulation

Gap junction (nexus joined point between 2 cells)

### Reflexes

Response made at a distance from target cell.

Communication systems: endocrine (messages via chemicals-blood to target
cells) and neuron (via chemical in a small space close to
effector/target cell, target recognizes chemical)

**Example of a reflex loop (external change)**

Cold air = stimulus \> skin = sensors \> hypothalamus = integration
centre/brain \> muscle shivering and vasoconstriction (blood moves away
from skin) = effector \> cold air = stimulus is eliminated… —\> negative
feedback loop because stimulus is removed

Whole example is similar to a thermostat in a home

**Example of a reflex loop (internal change)**

Fever (integration centre has raised the set point of the body
temperature higher than 37 degrees C)

**Positive feedback**

Endrocrine cell secretes hormone to target cell —\> target cell has more
receptors on its surface

### Tonic control

Decreased input (e.g. vaso dilation) \<-\> Basal state (medium
open/close state) \<-\> increased input (e.g. vasoconstriction) vaso =
blood vessel

Can be done with smooth muscle

### Antagonistic Control

Parasympathic (slow heart rate, e.g. good athlete resting) - intrinsic
heart rate - sympathetic (speed up heart rate, e.g. exercising athlete)

### Feed-forward control

Body anticipates a stimulus and begins hormone secretion

### Circadian Rhythms

Biological system changing on 24 hours basis, automatically without us
thinking of it.

Set points are automatically determined in the rhythm. Set points are
reset by sleeping and waking.

E.g. think jet lag when travelling, night owls/early birds = who have
different rhythms

## Pumps, Transporters, and Channels

Why study these things?

- Basis of physiological process: growth, metabolic activities, sensory
  perception
- Basis of disease
- Basis of pharmacological therapies
  - Effects of drugs influence these areas

**Transmission**

- Flux = random movement of molecules across a surface per unit time.
- Net flux is determined by gradient \[high\] -\> \[low\]. From high to
  low concentration.
- Gap junctions (nexus) permits diffusion of ions between coupled cells

Diffusion = movement until equilibrium

- Fast for short distances, heat increases speed, surface area increases
  diffusion
- Facilitated diffusion: transporter moves hydrophilic molecules
  (e.g. glucose) across lipid bilayer (the membrane). There are only so
  many transporters and they are only used for hydrophilic molecules
- Simple diffusion is increased as solute concentration increases, BUT
  facilitated diffusion has a maximum rate.

Co-transporters = two solutes at ones (Na+ and glucose)

- Symporter = two solutes moving in same direction
- Antiporter = two solutes moving, but in opposite directions.

### Channels

e.g. aquaporine = channel for water movement

Pores are open, allow diffusion from \[high\] to \[low\]. Opening and
closing via gating:

- Ligand - chemical - e.g. acetyl choline for skeletal muscles for
  sodium

- Voltage - electrical charge gradient exists across the membrane. In
  part caused be negatively charges proteins inside cell —\> so ECF is
  more positively charged compared to ICF. E.g. voltage gates Ca
  (Calcium) channels.

- Mechanical - requires specific tension to open, occurs in smooth
  muscle e.g. muscle contraction can open gates.

 

### Pumps

Pumps mediate active transport. Pumps cleave ATP (energy) within the
cell. Pumps always use ATP

 

Note: active transport from \[low\] to \[high\], opposite of diffusion.
e.g. move Ca to Ca++

 

### Transcellular Transport

Movement of chemicals across cells

e.g. GI materials to blood.

 

Co-Transporters, pumps, and transports are used

 

## Effective Solutes and Water Transport

Water is a hydrophilic, so it moves slowly across the plasma membrane
without a transport.

Osmosis is how water is transported

Aquaporin channel is open at all times for water to go through rapidly -
a facilitated diffusion

Highest concentration of water = pure water, lowest = water with
solutes.

Occurs by diffusion only \[high\] to \[low\]

 

 

Osmosis can cause cells to have equal concentrations by increases water
fluid in higher concentration cells

e.g. ICF to ECF osmosis to balance concentrations due to high NaCl
intake.

 

### Molarity vs. osmolarity

Osmolarity is concerned about number of molecules given a volume

e.g. 300 mOsM solution, it is a isosmotic to the body

200 mOsM is hypo osmotic

400 mOsM is hyper osmotic

 

### Tonicity & Cell Volume

Tonicity is concerned with the number of non-penetrating
molecules/volume. Water movement will be determined by osmolarity.
Homeostasis will prefer tonicity to be equal between the ECF and ICF at
all times.

 

e.g. someone is running a marathon and overhydrates causing their ECF
osmolarity to increase rapidly. Water will naturally try to balance the
osmolarity and water will move into the cells (ICF) to attempt to
balance and cause the cells to expand. If cells expand too much, that
can cause problems (e.g. brain cells)

 

Isotonic = same osmolarity

 

### Health application

 

### General Concepts

- ICF and ECF are in osmotic balance

- Water moves by facilitated diffusion through aquaporin channels

- Non-permeable solutes are called effective solutes. Cellular volume is
  critically dependent on the steady state of effective solutes and
  water across the cell membrane

- Cells shrink in hypertonic ECF conditions (water is moving out of the
  cell to dilute solutes). Cells swell in hypotonic ECF conditions
  (water moves into cells to balance solute concentrations and increase
  ECF solute concentrations)

###  

## Endocrine System - An Overview

Endocrine target cells must have high affinity receptors to hormones
since blood is so large, while chemical is small concentration (dilute).

 

In nervous system, targets have low affinity due to high concentration
of neurotransmitters near targets.

 

Endocrine glands = ductless glands whose secretions (hormones) are
delivered by the blood to target tissues.

 

### Endocrine homeostatic missions

- Sodium and water balance

- Calcium balance

- Energy balance

- Processes that cope with stress

- Growth and development

- Processes associated with reproduction

 

### Hormone concentration matters

- High concentration \> too much stimulation and down regulation can be
  done

- Low concentration \> low response is insufficient

- Concentration control:

  - rate of production - most regulated, + and - feedback loops

  - rate of delivery - dependent on perfusion and blood flow, follow
    mass action laws (carriers)

    - Mass action laws = hormone comes off carrier and becomes a free
      agent and binds to target cell which has high affinity to hormone

  - rate of degradation and/or excretion (liver, kidney excretion)

 

### Peptide/protein hormones

3 amino acids

 

Creation of hormones from preprohormone cleaved to hormone, when
complete hormones can be secreted

They have a short 1/2 life once in blood

e.g. hormone is insulin

 

### Steroid hormones

Secreted by adrenal, gonads, placenta (pregnant woman)

Insoluble in blood, transported via carrier proteins, must be
synthesized and secreted on demand, conversion in target tissues

 

 

### Amino Acid Derivatives (Hormones)

- Tyrosine - thyroxine

- Epinephrine

 

### Transport Carriers

- Extend half life of hormone E.g. thyroid hormones (several days),
  steroid (testosterone, estrogen, 60-90 minutes)

- Keep hormone from target cell receptor

- Total concentration in blood of hormone = free + bound, remember only
  free is active!

 

### About Receptor

1.  Types

    Hormones can be received in different places (even inside cell in
    case of steroid/thyroid hormones).

    There are many receptors on/in cells

2.  Sensitivity

    Depends on a couple factors:

     

### Looking at examples of hormones

 

Stimulus = high \[Na\] in blood \> Neuron \> antidiuretic hormone to
kidney from pituitary gland, neural control whose effect is for kidney
to move from urine back into blood to dilute \[Na\] concentration

 

Stimulus = low \[glucose\] plasma \> hypothalamus = sensor \> growth
hormone releasing hormone \> pituitary gland to secrete growth hormone
\> liver/bone = target cells

 

Stimulus = low \[Ca\] plasma/blood \> parathyroid gland secretes
parathyroid \> bone = target cell \> release of Ca++

Stimulus = high \[glucose\] plasma \> pancreas beta cells secretes
insulin\> muscle/fat= target cell \> \[glucose\] absorption++

 

### Inactivation of Hormone Signaling

Two options: receptor desensitization or negative feedback (remove
stimulus)

e.g. type 2 diabetes has desensitized insulin receptors

 

### General Concepts

- Peptide hormones are soluble in plasma, bind cell surface receptors,
  are fast-acting, and are short lived

- Thyroid hormones and steroid hormones are insoluble in plasma, act via
  intracellular receptors to change transcription, are slow-acting and
  long-lived

- Binding proteins (carriers) regular hormone availability, physiologic
  function, and half lives

- Hormone release is under neural, hormonal, and nutrient and ion
  regulation

- Signaling is regulated by changing plasma hormone concentration and by
  change target cell receptor sensitivity

 

## Assessment and Pathology

### Assessment of Function

Too much: hyper secretion, hormone excess

Too little: hypo secretion, hormone insufficiency

Target cell resistance: unresponsive (e.g. desensitized receptors as in
type 2 diabetes)

Just right: normal or eu-secretion

 

### Assays

An **assay** is an investigative (analytic) procedure in [laboratory
medicine](http://en.wikipedia.md/wiki/Laboratory_medicine),
[pharmacology](http://en.wikipedia.md/wiki/Pharmacology), [environmental
biology](http://en.wikipedia.md/wiki/Environmental_biology), [continuous
delivery](http://en.wikipedia.md/wiki/Continuous_delivery), and
[molecular biology](http://en.wikipedia.md/wiki/Molecular_biology) for
qualitatively assessing or quantitatively measuring the presence or
amount or the functional activity of a target entity (the analyte).

1.  Competitive Binding Assay

    - Checking concentrations of hormones.

    - Using antibodies that binds with labelled and unknown hormones.

    - Antibodies normally bind with labelled hormones. A mixture will
      along us to find out the amount of unlabelled (unknown) hormones
      are present.

    - Can tell us the amount of hormones, but not their ability to
      function

     

2.  Bioassay

    - Checks whether hormones are functional

    - e.g. cortisol secreted by adrenal gland, we want to check high
      cortisol

      - Cortisol is secreated (steroid is synthesized on demand) from
        CRH and ACTH hormone inputs

      - Give dexamethason to inhibit ACTH, to check if ACTH and CRH is
        the problem or other areas of the hypothalamus, pituitary,
        cortex axis is not functioning

### Classification of Endocrine pathology

If adrenal cortex is problem = primary

If pituitary is problem = secondary

If hypothalamus is problem = tertiary

 

Classification can be done by measuring hormone levels compared to
expected given stimulus.

 

### General Concepts

- Pathology in endocrinology occurs when there is either too little or
  too much hormone or resistance to the hormone due to receptor
  dysfunction

- Interpretation of hormone levels requires consideration of either the
  trophic hormone(s) (i.e. downstream hormone stimulating hormones) or
  of the ion/nutrient controlled by the hormone.
