---
date: 2016-08-02
filetags: ":health:medical:epubnote:"
id: 22581bf1-4397-4827-b393-bfec1f840bf5
title: Family Health
---

## Breastfeeding Supports Available to Ontarians

Resources Include Phone Support and Local Services

August 1, 2016 9:00 A.M.

[Ministry of Health and Long-Term
Care](https://news.ontario.ca/mohltc/en)

During World Breastfeeding Week, new mothers and mothers-to-be in
Ontario are reminded that there are provincial supports available to
help them breastfeed.

The World Health Organization recommends infants be breastfed
exclusively for the first six months of their lives. This means that the
baby receives no food or drink other than breast milk. But it can take
time and practice for both moms and their babies to learn how to
breastfeed. That's why Ontario has invested in support programs across
the province, including:

Telephone support: Ontarians can get confidential breastfeeding support,
advice and referrals from registered nurses with specialized
breastfeeding training 24 hours a day, seven days a week. One-to-one
coaching and referrals to local community services are provided. Call
toll-free at 1-866-797-0000.

Local supports: [Ontarians can find local breastfeeding support service
through a searchable online list](http://ontariobreastfeeds.ca/).

This list includes breastfeeding services located in local Community
Health Centres, Public Health Units, Aboriginal Health Access Centres,
and other community based organizations.

Investing in breastfeeding supports is part of the government's plan to
build a better Ontario through its Patients First: Action Plan for
Health Care, which provides patients with faster access to the right
care; better home and community care; the information they need to live
healthy; and a health care system that is sustainable for generations to
come.

## Quick Facts

Breastfeeding has many benefits for babies, including: better overall
health, protection from illness and infections, healthy brain
development, maintaining a healthy body weight and proper jaw and tooth
growth.

Breastfeeding also has benefits for mothers including: controlling
bleeding after baby's birth, reducing the risk of breast and ovarian
cancer and osteoporosis

The [Baby-Friendly Initiative](http://breastfeedingresourcesontario.ca/)
is a globally recognized standard for infant feeding and breastfeeding
promotion, and supports exclusive breastfeeding and skin-to-skin contact
within the first hour of birth.

## Additional Resources

- [World Breastfeeding Week 2016](http://worldbreastfeedingweek.md/)

- [Learn more about
  breastfeeding](http://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/public/programs/healthykids/breastfeeding.aspx)

- [Ontariobreastfeeds.ca](http://ontariobreastfeeds.ca/)

- [Healthy Kids
  Strategy](http://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/public/programs/healthykids/)

- [Patients First: Action Plan for Health
  Care](http://www.health.gov.on.ca/en/ms/ecfa/healthy_change/)

## Quotes

*"The majority of moms in Ontario want to breastfeed. It's convenient,
healthy and a great way for moms and babies to bond. World Breastfeeding
Week is an important time to encourage moms to make use of the many
services available in this province to help them continue
breastfeeding."*

[Dr.Â Eric Hoskins](https://news.ontario.ca/profiles/en/dr-eric-hoskins)

Minister of Health and Long-Term Care

*"Breastfeeding has so many benefits for mothers, babies and families.
Families are encouraged to get the support and information they need to
start and maintain breastfeeding. A good place to start is the bilingual
online searchable directory of Ontario breastfeeding services!"*

Wendy McAllister

Manager, Best Start Resource Centre

*Pasted from
\<<https://news.ontario.ca/mohltc/en/2016/08/breastfeeding-supports-available-to-ontarians.html?utm_source=ondemand&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=o>\>*
